Thank you very much. Big finish. I'm
Mike Allen, co-founder of Axio on bealf
of my co-founders, Roy Schwarz, Jim
Vanhey. Thank you to all of you who for
coming up nine years now have been fans
of Axios and thank you for turning out
here in San Francisco in this historic
bank, this very cool uh setting for this
Axios AI plus SF summit. Uh welcome to
all of you around the world. for our big
finish. Deis Hassabis, PhD co-founder
and CEO of Google Deep Mind. He's a
neuroscientist and entrepreneur and AI
pioneer. Demis was a chess prodigy at
five, a Nobel laureate at 48. He's a
Britishborn genius. He's been kned.
Deisabas, welcome to Axios.
[applause]
Thank you so much. Thanks for having me.
>> We've been looking forward to this. We
appreciate
>> to be here.
>> It was just over 400 days ago that you
found out you were a Nobel laureate. And
you said in that moment, you said this
is surreal.
>> This is the big one.
>> Yeah.
>> What has changed since then about your
life and work? What has it made
possible?
>> Um, well, look, it's still pretty
surreal actually. still hasn't fully
sunk in, but uh it has made quite a big
difference. The the thing it makes a
difference to is when you speak to
people not in your field, including you
know big government people, things like
that who maybe don't know that much
about AI. If you, you know, you have the
Nobel Prize, it's a sort of shortcut to
almost anyone to to know that you're,
you know, you're expert in your field.
So, it's it's going to be useful, I
think, in the future. and [laughter]
and you had endless resources at your
disposal. Are there new resources that
you have or that you think you can tap
now?
>> Not really. I mean, you're right. We
we're lucky at at Google at Deep Mind.
We have we have a lot of resources.
They're not endless. We always need more
more compute. Uh no matter how much
compute you have, but um but we have,
you know, a lot of great things, which
is why we're able to do such a broad
portfolio of things. But it's mostly
again this uh this platform it gives you
to basically speak out about things that
you care about. And I haven't done a lot
of that yet, but I think it will be
important. Maybe we're going to talk
about AI safety and other things. I
think uh the Nobel and the platform that
gives you uh could be useful for that.
>> And what's on the short list of in
addition to AI safety that you think
you'll be talking more about using your
platform?
>> Yeah, well it's not just about uh safety
in the long term. AGI safety obviously I
think we think a lot about that but it's
also about responsible use of AI today.
Uh what are the kinds of things we
should be using AI to to improve and to
to power up and to accelerate and maybe
you know what sorts of things we should
be careful about um uh uh in the even in
the near term. So I think that's one
thing I think also just getting society
ready for what's to come. you know, AGI
probably the most transformative moment
in human history is on the horizon and
um we need to get prepared as a society
um and as a species and I think of
course governments and other important
people uh uh other important leaders are
going to be critical in that and I think
having having something like the Nobel
platform opens pretty much any door. One
of the things that distinguishes you is
you're deep in the science and yet you
also are on the front line of this fight
and this race among companies,
hyperscalers, superpowers and you sort
of in the mold of Steve Jobs, you also
have a product mind. You want to create
delightful things for people, but you
always say you're a scientist first.
>> Yeah, science. I'm a scientist first.
The reason I say that is that's the
that's the sort of default approach I
take to everything. So um and what I
mean by that is the scientific method
really that way of thinking. Um I really
love the I mean I think it's the most
the scientific method is is the most
important maybe idea humanity's ever
had. Um you know created the
enlightenment and then modern science.
So basically, modern civilization
depends on on on this on this idea of
scientific method and experimentation
and then updating your hypothesis and so
on. And I think it's an incredibly
powerful method, but I think it can be
applied to more than just science. I
think it can be applied to everyday
living and indeed business. Um, and
that's what I've tried to do is sort of
take that uh uh to its limit. And I
think that's what gives us um you know
advantage in some ways as a as a
research organization as an engineering
organization. Yes, we're in the middle
of this ferocious probably the most
ferocious competitive battle maybe tech
has ever seen. Um and uh but one of the
things that I think gives us an edge is
is the rigor and precision we bring to
our work. um because um we have a
scientific method sort of at the heart
of it and we blend world-class research
with world-class engineering with
world-class infrastructure and I think
you need all three of those things to be
at the frontier of something like AI and
I think you know we we're we're sort of
pretty unique in having uh worldclass
capabilities in in all those areas. Um
yeah so in Axio fashion we're going to
divide our conversation between zoom out
and zoom in. So, zoom out uh getting
your priceless uh mind on the state of
AI. So, we're going to talk about the
blunt state of AI. And what I'm going to
ask from you is given the known knowns
today, be blunt,
>> clinical, no hype, no soft selling. Can
we do that?
>> I'll do my best.
>> All right. Um
what does the next 12 months of progress
look like? What do you believe that if
if we sit here a year from today and I
would love to uh what will have changed
in the world?
>> Um I think the things that that we're
we're pressing hard on are um uh the
convergence of modalities. So you Gemini
which is our main foundation model has
always been multimodal from the
beginning. It takes images, video, uh
text, audio and then can produce now
increasingly produce those uh uh types
of outputs as well. Um, and I think
we're getting some really interesting uh
cross-pollination by being multimodal.
One the best example of that is our
latest image model NO Banana Pro which
um I think shows some astonishing sort
of understanding of visuals and it can
kind of you know create infographics
that are really accurate and so on. So I
think over the next year you're going to
see that uh uh progress a lot and I
think for example in video when that
converges with the language models
you're going to be see some very
interesting combinations of capabilities
there. I think the other things we're
going to see over the next year and I'm
personally working on is world models.
So uh we have this um uh uh system
called Genie Genie 3 which is like an
interactive video model you can think
about. So you can sort of generate a
video but then you can start walking
around it like you're in a game or
simulation and it stays coherent for a
minute. I think that's very exciting. Um
and then uh you know maybe the other
thing is a agent based systems. So we I
think the field's been talking a lot
about agents but then they're not
reliable yet enough to do full tasks.
But I think over the next
>> we've heard a lot about that today here
on the Axia stage. What would you say a
year from now? How will agents have
progressed? What's an example of how it
will work in everyday life a year from
now?
>> Well, look, I we we have this concept of
a universal assistant that we want
Gemini eventually to become. Uh I think
this is also you're going to see from us
over the next year. This will be on on
on more devices as well. By universal,
we mean it's not just on your computer
or your laptop or your or your phone,
but maybe comes around with you on
glasses or other devices. And um I think
it needs you know we want to create
something that is useful to you in your
everyday life that you consult many
times a day. it becomes a part of the
fabric of your life and it just improves
your productivity but also your personal
life you know recommendations for books
and films and other or activities that
you'd like and but yeah so but agents at
the moment they can't comp you can't
delegate to them uh a whole task and be
sure they're going to complete that
entire task uh uh completely reliably
>> but a year from now you think they will
>> I think a year from now we'll start
having agents that uh are close uh to
doing that and bullcase, barecase, what
is the best case for what AI can do for
the world and what do you fear most?
>> Well, look, the the the the the best
case scenario that that I've always
dreamed about and why I've worked my
whole life on on on AI and you know
getting closer to this moment we've been
working towards for decades now, many of
us is um uh a kind of I somes call it
radical abundance. So this idea we
solved a lot of the biggest issues
confronting uh society and humanity
today. So whether that's free uh uh
renewable clean energy, maybe we sold
fusion or better battery optimal
batteries and and solar uh materials,
semiconductors, you know, material
science. We've solved a lot of diseases.
So then we're in a situation where, you
know, we're in this new era, post
scarcity era, and we're potentially, you
know, humanity's is is flourishing and
traveling to the stars and spreading
consciousness to the to the galaxy.
>> And what do you fear most?
>> Well, even that utopian kind of view has
some questions around it about what will
be um our purpose as humans if there are
these technologies and that are out
there that are solving all these
problems. all be left to solve. You
know, I worry about that as a scientist
and you know, the scientific method
even. So, there's that, but there's also
obviously the the well-known uh down
challenges and risks with AI of well,
twofold. One is bad actors um uh using
AI for harmful ends um or the AI itself
as it gets closer to AGI and becomes
more gentic um it goes off the rails in
some way that harms humanity.
>> So, you mentioned going off the rails.
Um, how worried are you about these
catastrophic outcomes? Your level of
concern? I'm just going to rattle them
off. One, pathogens created by an evil
actor using AI.
>> Mhm.
>> I think that's definitely one of the one
of the bad use case scenarios that we
have to guard against for sure.
>> Energy or water cyber terror using AI by
a foreign actor.
>> Yeah, that that's probably almost
already happening now, I would say.
Maybe not with very sophisticated AI
yet, but I think that's the most obvious
vulnerable vector. Um, and which is why
we focus quite a lot and we are focusing
quite a lot as Google and as DeepMind on
on AI for cyber security. So, so to
power up the defensive side of that
equation,
>> AI operating outside human control on
its own.
Well, this goes back to the agentic
stuff where I think as that becomes more
sophisticated and it's clear why the
industry will build those things because
they'll be more useful as things like
assistance. Um, so they're definitely
going to happen, but the more aentic and
autonomous they are, the more room there
is for these things to uh deviate from
what you maybe had intended when you
gave the initial instruction or the
initial goal. So this is a very active
area of research which is to how to make
sure that systems that maybe are capable
of continual learning or online learning
stay uh within the guard rails that that
you set. I mean, I think the good news
is um because AI is become such so big
commercially and for enterprises, if you
think about renting or selling one of
your agents as a model provider, leading
model provider to another big business,
those businesses will want guarantees
around the agents behavior, what it does
with their data, what it does with their
the customers. And if those things go
wrong, they're not going to be
existential in any way, but you'll lose
the business for sure. So because why
would that business enterprise go with
that provider? They would choose a
different provider that was more
responsible and had better guarantees.
So I think what's great about that is um
that that will it will sort of
capitalism will reward sort of naturally
uh ideally more responsible actors
>> but it's possible that the AI could jump
the moat, jump the guard rail
>> potentially if done wrong. I mean it's
there was always a possibility. We're we
nobody really knows what the um that's
one of the big unknowns. I think it's
non zero that potential. Uh so it's
worth very seriously considering and
mitigating against but um you know I
hear people talk you know give very
precise percentages about what the
chances of these poom
>> a p doom which I think is kind of
nonsense because no one knows what it
is. What I know is it's
>> so you don't you don't quantify it but
you say it's
>> it's non zero. So clearly if your PDM is
non zero then you you you know you must
put significant resources and and and
attention on that.
>> Where is the US winning the AI race
against China and where are we losing?
>> Um I I I think that we're still in the
in the US and in the west um in the lead
uh if you look at the at the latest
benchmarks and um the latest systems but
they're not you know China is not far
behind. If you look at the latest
DeepSseek or the latest smallers,
they're very good and they there are
some very capable teams there. So maybe
we're, you know, the lead is only a
matter of months as opposed to years at
this point.
>> Because when you put chips aside, AI,
China probably is winning.
>> Um, no, I think chips is one thing, but
I think algorithmically, innovation
wise, I think the West still has the
edge. So I don't think any of the
Chinese models or or companies have
shown they can innovate on
algorithmically something new that um
beyond the state-of-the-art they they
they've been very good at um uh fast
sort of following the the current uh
state-of-the-art.
>> Our last zoom out question and you're
going to like this one. What's the most
astonishing thing about AI that you
think gets shockingly little attention?
The most astonishing thing about AI that
gets shocking little little attention.
>> Wow. Yeah. I think if I think of the
things we're working on and already have
working, it's the um multimodal
understanding these models have. Like if
you
>> and multimodal video,
>> yes, video uh image and and I mean
audio, but I'm thinking specifically
video actually. So if you if you give
Gemini a YouTube video to process, you
can ask it all sorts of incredible
things about the video that it's just
sort of mind-blowing to me that it can
understand sort of conceptually in a lot
of cases like not always but in many
really impressive cases what's
happening. Can understand
>> example of a question. Um well I've
asked questions on on like um you know
one of I mean look this was just
something I tested Gemini on the other
day was was um I love the film Fight
Club and uh there's some scene in it I
think where Brad Pitt or or or maybe
it's Ed Norton I can't remember takes
off his ring uh uh before having a fight
and the sort of um I asked you know
Gemini like what's the significance of
of of of that of that [snorts] action
and you know he came up with a very
interesting sort of philosophical point
about leaving behind uh everyday life
and and just sort of symbolically
showing that um was you know very
interesting kind of meta insight that
that you know these systems have now and
I think if you use it the other thing
that's sort of not appreciated is like
we have this thing called Gemini Live
where you can point your phone at
something and say you're a mechanic uh
uh it can actually just help you with
whatever you know task you have in front
of you ideally that should be glasses
because you want to have your hands free
really for that um but I think people
don't realize how um how powerful that
multimodality capability is yet.
>> All right, you've given us the perfect
bridge in transition to zooming in. Uh
congratulations on Gemini 3 last month.
Uh your gamechanging uh model, you say
it reasons with unprecedented depth and
nuance. Tell us what's unique about the
nuance part of Gemini 3. Yeah, I think
it's just um uh uh we're really pleased
with the the the the almost the
personality of it, the style of it as
well as its capability. I I I I like the
way um that it answers succinctly. It
pushes back a little bit if you're
doesn't just agree with whatever you're
saying. It pushes back gently on some
ideas that if they're not if they don't
make sense. And I think people are
appreciating uh it seems you know sort
of I feel like it's a you can feel it's
a bit of a step change in its kind of
intelligence and therefore usefulness.
>> And what's something that Gemini has
answered or produced where you said I
didn't know it could do that or I didn't
know it would do that.
>> Well actually this is the the amazing
thing of when you why we love what what
we're doing so much is that the this era
we're now in with research connected to
product. The great thing about that is
that you get millions and potentially at
Google billions of users immediately
take advantage of the new technology you
put out there. And uh we're continually
surprised by the cool things that people
figure out very quickly um to use these
models for. Um and a lot of those things
sort of, you know, tend to go viral. But
the thing I I most enjoyed with Gemini 3
was oneshotting uh games. So back to my
very first career of making AI for
games, I think we're very close now with
these models. maybe the next version
models where you could start really
creating perhaps commercial grade games
uh you know vibe coding them uh with you
know in a few hours which used to take
years
>> and that shows nuance. What does that
show about the model? Well, I think it's
just incredible uh uh depth and and and
capability of these models to understand
very high level instructions and and
produce you know very detailed outputs
and the other things that uh uh Gemini 3
particularly is good at is front-end
work and developing you know websites
and it's it's pretty good aesthetically
and creatively as well as um
technically. Something we've written a
fair amount about at Axios is that even
the authors, creators of these models
don't totally understand them. What's
something about Gemini 3? Yeah.
>> That you feel like you don't totally
get?
>> Well, actually I feel like with all
these models um and and maybe all of the
the audience are feeling this too is
that it there's such a fast pace of of
of innovation and improvement. Um we're
spending almost all of our time building
these things. We have we don't even have
I I have to have this feeling every time
we release a new version that I haven't
even explored a tenth had time to even
explore a tenth of probably what the
existing systems can do because of
course we're on to immediately you know
we're referencing back to the ferocious
race and competition we're in we're
immediately focusing on the next
innovation uh and obviously making sure
it's safe and reliable and all those
things. So again, our users end up uh uh
taking them much further than often uh
we we've tried internally.
>> And one more question on Gemini 3, a
little back story and you had a number
of irons in the fire, but LLM's the
textbased uh large language models. uh
you didn't necessarily go all in on that
as the holy grail. Something that Walter
Isacson, the great author and thinker
and your friend said to me is that when
you saw the power of the LLM, you did a
pivot, a pureette, as Walter said it,
and were able to leapfrog to great
success. And Walter's point was that
most business people would have been
stubborn, might have doubled, triple
down on their other bets. How did you
make this decision to go allin on your
LLM?
>> Well, I think this is again the the the
beauty of and the strength of the
scientific method. If you're a true
scientist, you can't get too dogmatic
about some idea you have. You you need
to go with where the empirical evidence
is taking you. So, first of all, this is
this is Walter is probably referring
back to the 2017 2018 era. So, there we
had a lot of irons in the fire. As we
said, we had our own very capable
language models. They were called
Chinchilla and then Sparrow and we had
these various different code names for
them. Um they weren't publicly released
but they were internal. In fact, some of
the scaling laws were originally figured
out by our team. They're called the
Chinchilla scaling laws. Um but we also
had other types of programs alpha zero
things that were building on Alpha Go
pure RL systems and we also had some
cognitive science more neuroscience
inspired architectures as well. And at
the time all we weren't sure my job is
to make sure we build AGI uh first fast
and safely, right? That's always been
our our solve intelligence, our mission
at DeepMind. And and so I'm kind of
agnostic actually to the to the approach
that's taken. I'm pretty pragmatic on
that. That's maybe my engineering side
of me is I have some theories as as a
good scientist would, but I'm I'm I'm at
the end of the day, it's got to
pragmatically work. And so when we
started seeing the beginnings of scaling
working, then we increasingly put more
and more resources onto that branch of
the of the of the research tree.
>> Something that's refreshing about your
approach is with artificial general
intelligence, human capable uh AI. You
don't shy away from it. Some other
people say, "Well, we won't know or
we're already there or it doesn't
matter." You say that it does matter and
we will know. And you say it's not far
off.
>> Yeah, we're definitely not there now.
So, and and I and
>> actually quite close is how you say.
>> Yes, quite close. I think we're like
five to 10 years away if you were to ask
me. I'm sorry. I think Say that again.
>> Five to 10 years away. I think my bar
though is quite high. So, this is the
the we define AGI as you know the a
system that that exhibits all the
cognitive capabilities we have and that
includes uh inventive and creative
capabilities. I think there are missing
there's as all of you have used the
current LLMs there are they're they're
amazing in some ways. They're really
impressive in some senses in some
they've got incredible almost PhD levels
uh key skills in some areas IMO gold
medals and so on but in other areas
they're very flawed still and so they're
these sort of jagged intelligences so
the you would expect across the board
consistency from a true AGI and they're
missing other capabilities like
continual learning online learning
long-term planning and reasoning they
can't do any of these things currently I
think they will be able to but maybe one
or two more breakthroughs are going to
be required
>> and a question from the great Ena
Frereded who we've uh seen today and
whose uh coverage from day zero of Axios
has helped make Axios what it is. Uh she
says you're obviously
um uh you've said that AI might be one
advance two advances away from AGI.
>> Yes.
>> Will we get there just by improving LLM
and generative AI or do you think that
there might be a different approach
that's needed to hit a GI in your 5 to
10 years? I think I think again this is
an empirical question but what I do know
this is this would be my best guess is
um the scaling of the current systems
you we must push that to the maximum
because at the minimum it will be a key
component of the final AGI system it
could be the entirety of the AGI system
there's a chance that just scaling will
get you there but my guess is if I was
to guess from where I my vantage point
now is that one or two more big
breakthroughs when I mean there's
innovation going on all the time by the
way even including in scaling um
existing techniques but I'm talking like
a transformer level or alpho level type
of breakthrough. I think we might I
suspect when we look back in once AGI is
done that one or two of those things
were still required in addition to
scaling.
>> We're about to get the hook. So a super
rapid round. Another question from uh
Ena. you obviously are a big believer in
AI, but if you look at what's being
spent, that doesn't mean that there
might not be a big enough bubble to
rattle the economy. How worried are you
about that?
>> Um, I think we there I think it's not a
binary. I think some parts of the AI
industry are probably in a bubble like,
you know, I don't know, like the seed
rounds of, you know, you know, $50
billion seed rounds and things like that
seems a little bit unsustainable. But um
on the other hand, of course, I more
than anyone believes that AI is the most
transformative uh technology ever. So I
think in the fullness of time, this is
all going to be uh more than justified.
And my job as head of Google Deep Mine
and and the engine room of Google is to
make sure we win either way. If if the
bubble the so-called bubble bursts or if
things continue to be good like they are
now, we're in a strong position.
>> The AI recruiting wars, what's the end
state of this competition for talent?
Well, look, it's gone pretty crazy
recently. Things like what Meta have
been doing and, you know, everyone's got
to do what what makes sense for them.
Uh, what we found for us is that we want
people who are missiondriven. We have, I
think, the best mission. We have the
full stack. So, I think if you want to
do the most impactful work and have the
most positive impact on the world, then
I think there's nowhere better uh than
than at Google DeepMind. And in the end,
I think the best scientists, the best
researchers, the best engineers, they
want to work on the most cutting edge
stuff. So if you're the sort of top of
the leaderboards with the best systems,
uh that's that's sort of a self fueling.
This is a question from James
Vanderhigh, an entrepreneurial young
mind at High Point University in North
Carolina. He says, "There's a lot of
conversation about AI gaining a mind of
its own. Is there a scenario where AI
could act in its selfinterest?"
Well, that's a great question and and
it's related to the some of the the the
the more sort of catastrophic outcomes
is if that went wrong, that would be one
of the issues that with agentbased
systems or very autonomous systems if
somehow they developed a self-interest
that was some in some sense sense
conflicting with what the designers or
even perhaps humanity wanted it to do.
>> And finishing with a fun thing, you're
still a gamer. What does gaming teach us
about the world and what does gaming
teach us about where these machines are
headed?
>> Well, look, I think uh my chess
background and and my training in that
and then other games subsequently has
been critical to how I do my work and
both in business and in science. Uh I
think the thing I love about games and
there's many things I've loved about
them, but I love the creativity of
making them. But I also just playing
them I think is the best way to train
your mind because the best games whether
that's chess or go or whatever or poker
they're microcosms of something in the
real world right but in general you
don't get in the real world to have
several practice goes at making the
decision correctly in that moment. Maybe
in the real life you only get a dozen of
those critical moments, but you can
practice your decision-m capabilities as
much as you want uh w within the the the
the almost the simulation really of the
world with games. Um and as long as you
take the games very seriously, so you
put you put a lot of thought into your
decision-m, it really does train your
your decision-m and planning
capabilities in my opinion. Now, you've
pointed out that our squishy brains uh
evolved uh to be hunter gatherers and
yet we're facing a disruption that as
you put it to the Guardian will be 10
times bigger than the industrial
revolution and maybe 10 times faster.
Are we facing a situation where most
humans can't keep up and maybe no human
including you can keep up?
>> Well, the good news is and I think my
point on the hunt gather was look how
adaptive our brains have been. We we
evolved to be hunter gatherers and yet
here we are sitting in our modern
cities, modern civilization with all the
technology around us and um you know the
same human brain pretty much has been
able to adapt to that. So I'm a really
uh big believer in uh human ingenuity
and um and I think we're infinitely
adaptable. We are the only existence
proof our brains are the only existence
proof of general intelligence perhaps in
the known you know universe that we know
of so far. So we are general
intelligences ourselves and so we should
be able to infinitely adapt. There is a
question about when AGI post AGI what
kinds of technologies can we create
brain computer interfaces other things
that some of us may choose to to use in
addition to our existing technologies
and that could be one way for us to keep
up.
>> And as we say goodbye you're a lifelong
Liverpool fan. You've helped them with
their analytics. How will AI affect and
inform the World Cup here in North
America?
>> Well, we've had a lot of we've had a lot
of teams approach us for for help, too.
And um and I have to be try and be equal
with that, but it's hard having a
lifelong spot of Liverpool. But I'm
looking forward to trying to make it out
here maybe at least for the World Cup
final.
>> But but let's be serious. What what what
will it change between now and then?
It's a it's a lifetime in AI between now
and then, right?
>> Yeah. Well, what in AI or AI for sport
or just in
>> Yes. Yeah. Well, I mean, look, sport has
immense amount of data and it's all
about uh extreme elite performance. So,
it's actually a natural bed fellow for
for AI to to come in and and help
optimize that process even further.
>> And without giving away a trade secret,
what will it be able to do for a World
Cup team?
>> Uh maybe score more headers from from
corners, you know, if you place the
that's one of the things I think our
system found out like precise
positioning of the players. Deus, thanks
for making a